Isambard Status (#31)
alan-turing-institute/hpc-landscape: Isambard/isambard_status.md

# Isambard Status

There is no function on Isambard Phase 2 which displays whether GPUs are available, but it is possible to inspect the nodes using `sinfo`.

> Running `squeue` or `sinfo` in a rapid loop (e.g. using `watch` or the `--iterate` flag with a short interval) floods the Slurm scheduler with queries. 
> **This can slow down job scheduling for every user on the system, not just your own jobs.**
> Do not run the inspection scripts twice in one minute.

> 

Reviewer: Add sub heading - ## GPU availability

> The following script shows how many GPUs are available with the CPUs and Memory that would be provided when using the `--gpus` flag on `sbatch`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command uses `sinfo`, `grep` and `awk` to find GPU availability on nodes on Isambard-AI and prints the output in an easy to read format.

It counts GPUs as 'available' only if the proportional share of CPUs (72 per GPU) and memory (115 GB per GPU) are also free on that node - i.e. the default resources requested when using `sbatch` with `--gpus 1`.
```

  grep -v "mixed-\|idle-" | \
  awk '
  NR>1 {
    s = tolower($7)
    if (s != "mixed" && s != "idle") next
    split($2, gtot, ":"); split(gtot[2], t, "("); gpu_total = t[1]+0
    split($3, gused, ":"); split(gused[3], u, "("); gpu_used = u[1]+0
    split($4, cpu, "/")
    free_gpu = gpu_total - gpu_used
    if (free_gpu > 0) {
      mem_free = ($5 - $6) / 1024; mem_total = $5 / 1024
      gpu_frac = (gpu_total > 0) ? free_gpu / gpu_total : 0
      cpu_frac = (cpu[4] > 0) ? cpu[2] / cpu[4] : 0
      mem_frac = (mem_total > 0) ? mem_free / mem_total : 0
      avail = (gpu_frac < cpu_frac) ? gpu_frac : cpu_frac
      avail = (avail < mem_frac) ? avail : mem_frac
      if      (avail >= 1.0)  bin4++
      else if (avail >= 0.75) bin3++
      else if (avail >= 0.5)  bin2++
      else if (avail >= 0.25) bin1++
    }
  }
  END {
    printf "Node Availability\n"
    printf "Quarter Free        : %d\n", bin1+0
    printf "Half Free           : %d\n", bin2+0
    printf "Three-Quarters Free : %d\n", bin3+0
    printf "Completely Free     : %d\n", bin4+0
    printf "--------------------------\n"
    printf "Total GPU slot      : %d\n", bin1+2*bin2+3*bin3+4*bin4+0
  }'
```

> This next script shows all the nodes with a GPU available.

Reviewer: When I run this I get weird numbers:

```                                                                                                                                      
  Node Availability                                                                                                                            
  Quarter Free        : 6                                                                                                                      
  Half Free           : 6                                                                                                                      
  Three-Quarters Free : 0                                                                                                                      
  Completely Free     : 0                                                                                                                      
  --------------------------                                                                                                                   
  Total GPU slot      : 18                                                                                                                     
  
```

seems plausible but

```                                                                                                                      
  NODE       STATE  GPU   CPU      MEM      AVAIL                                                                                              
  nid010000  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010004  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010011  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010027  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010029  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010031  mixed  1/4   72/288   24/449   0.05                                                                                               
  nid010033  mixed  2/4   144/288  49/449   0.11                                                                                               
  nid010110  mixed  2/4   144/288  49/449   0.11                                                                                               
  nid010115  mixed  2/4   144/288  0/449    0.00                                                                                               
  nid010136  mixed  1/4   72/288   304/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid010151  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010159  mixed  1/4   72/288   96/449   0.22                                                                                               
  nid010168  mixed  2/4   144/288  323/449  0.50                                                                                               
  nid010169  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010174  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010180  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010192  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010211  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010244  mixed  4/4   216/288  0/449    0.00                                                                                               
  nid010284  mixed  1/4   72/288   401/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid010349  mixed  2/4   144/288  224/449  0.50                                                                                               
  nid010387  mixed  2/4   144/288  224/449  0.50                                                                                               
  nid010388  mixed  1/4   72/288   112/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid010399  mixed  1/4   72/288   208/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid010408  mixed  2/4   144/288  320/449  0.50                                                                                               
  nid010411  mixed  2/4   144/288  80/449   0.18                                                                                               
  nid010412  mixed  2/4   144/288  224/449  0.50                                                                                               
  nid010416  mixed  1/4   72/288   24/449   0.05                                                                                               
  nid010473  mixed  1/4   72/288   96/449   0.22                                                                                               
  nid010680  mixed  1/4   72/288   112/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid010690  mixed  2/4   144/288  224/449  0.50                                                                                               
  nid010706  mixed  1/4   72/288   80/449   0.18                                                                                               
  nid010785  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010808  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010809  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010823  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010824  mixed  2/4   144/288  81/449   0.18                                                                                               
  nid010833  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010837  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010839  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010848  mixed  1/4   72/288   96/449   0.22                                                                                               
  nid010854  mixed  2/4   144/288  49/449   0.11                                                                                               
  nid010870  mixed  1/4   72/288   25/449   0.06                                                                                               
  nid010871  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010872  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010874  mixed  1/4   72/288   80/449   0.18                                                                                               
  nid010875  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010876  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010877  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid010901  mixed  1/4   72/288   112/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid010944  mixed  1/4   72/288   112/449  0.25                                                                                               
  nid011018  mixed  2/4   144/288  49/449   0.11                                                                                               
  nid011027  mixed  1/4   72/288   24/449   0.05                                                                                               
  nid011039  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011041  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011044  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011045  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011049  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011054  mixed  2/4   144/288  49/449   0.11                                                                                               
  nid011055  mixed  4/4   144/288  25/449   0.06                                                                                               
  nid011067  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011069  mixed  1/4   72/288   16/449   0.04                                                                                               
  nid011071  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011079  mixed  1/4   72/288   24/449   0.05                                                                                               
  nid011092  mixed  1/4   72/288   24/449   0.05                                                                                               
  nid011100  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011104  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011108  mixed  1/4   72/288   96/449   0.22                                                                                               
  nid011109  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011118  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011120  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011123  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011129  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011133  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011136  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011137  mixed  1/4   72/288   8/449    0.02                                                                                               
  nid011146  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011245  mixed  4/4   144/288  41/449   0.09                                                                                               
  nid011252  mixed  4/4   144/288  73/449   0.16                                                                                               
  nid011314  mixed  4/4   216/288  89/449   0.20                                                                                               
  nid011315  mixed  1/4   72/288   8/449    0.02                                                                                               
  81         nodes  with  at       least    1      GPU  available                                                                              
  13         nodes  with  AVAIL    >=       0.25                                                                                                                                           
```

doesn't seem plausible.

I think there is an issue with this command (or I'm misunderstanding it?) as I'm sure 4/4 GPUs are not available on so many nodes.
